
=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup - A group of Mail::Message::Field::Address objects


=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup
   is a Mail::Reporter


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 !! UNDER CONSTRUCTION !!
 my $g = Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup->new('name');

 my $a = Mail::Message::Field::Address->new(...);
 $g->addAddress($a);
 
 my $f = Mail::Message::Field::Addresses->new;
 $f->addGroup($g);


=head1 DESCRIPTION




=head1 METHODS


=head2 Constructors


Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup-E<gt>B<new>(DATA)

=over 4

 Option  Defined in       Default      
 log     L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>
 trace   L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>

. log LEVEL

. trace LEVEL

I<Example:> 


=back

=head2 The group


$obj-E<gt>B<addAddress>(ADDRESS|OPTIONS)

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

Returns the name of this group.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<string>

=over 4

Returns the address group as string.

=back

=head2 The addresses


$obj-E<gt>B<addresses>

=over 4

Returns all addresses defined in this group.

=back

=head2 Error handling


$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup


$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back



=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.






=head1 REFERENCES

See the Mail::Box website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Module version 2.042.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


