
=head1 NAME


Mail::Transport::Receive - receive messages

=head1 CLASS INHERITANCE

Mail::Transport::Receive
   is a Mail::Transport
   is a Mail::Reporter

Mail::Transport::Receive is extended by
   Mail::Transport::POP3

=head1 SYNOPSIS


 my $receiver = Mail::Transport::POP3->new(...);
 my $message = $receiver->receive($id);

=head1 DESCRIPTION


Each object which extends L<Mail::Transport::Receive> implement
a protocol which can get messages into your application.  The internals
of each implementation can differ quite a lot, so have a look at each
separate manual page as well.

Current message receivers:

=over 4

=item * Mail::Transport::POP3

Implements the POP3 protocol.  See also Mail::Box::POP3.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Initiation

=over 4

=item B<new> OPTIONS X<new>

 OPTION               DEFAULT
 hostname             'localhost'
 interval             30
 log                  'WARNINGS'
 password             undef
 port                 undef
 proxy                undef
 retry                <false>
 timeout              120
 trace                'WARNINGS'
 username             undef
 via                  'sendmail'

=over 4

=item B<hostname> =E<gt> HOSTNAME|ARRAY-OF-HOSTNAMES

See Mail::Transport::new(hostname)

=item B<interval> =E<gt> SECONDS

See Mail::Transport::new(interval)

=item B<log> =E<gt> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::new(log)

=item B<password> =E<gt> STRING

See Mail::Transport::new(password)

=item B<port> =E<gt> INTEGER

See Mail::Transport::new(port)

=item B<proxy> =E<gt> PATH

See Mail::Transport::new(proxy)

=item B<retry> =E<gt> NUMBER|undef

See Mail::Transport::new(retry)

=item B<timeout> =E<gt> SECONDS

See Mail::Transport::new(timeout)

=item B<trace> =E<gt> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::new(trace)

=item B<username> =E<gt> STRING

See Mail::Transport::new(username)

=item B<via> =E<gt> CLASS|NAME

See Mail::Transport::new(via)

=back

=back

=head2 Server Connection

=over 4

=item B<findBinary> NAME [, DIRECTORIES]

See Mail::Transport::findBinary()

=item B<remoteHost> 

See Mail::Transport::remoteHost()

=item B<retry> 

See Mail::Transport::retry()

=back

=head2 Receiving Mail

=over 4

=item B<receive> [UNIQUE-MESSAGE-ID] X<receive>

Receive one message from the remote server.  Some receivers will provide
the next message automatically, other are random access and use the
specified ID.

=back

=head2 Logging and Tracing

=over 4

=item B<defaultTrace> [LEVEL, [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::defaultTrace()

=item B<errors> 

See Mail::Reporter::errors()

=item B<log> [LEVEL [,STRINGS]]

See Mail::Reporter::log()

=item B<report> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::report()

=item B<reportAll> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::reportAll()

=item B<trace> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::trace()

=item B<warnings> 

See Mail::Reporter::warnings()

=back

=head2 Other Methods

=over 4

=item B<AUTOLOAD> 

See Mail::Reporter::AUTOLOAD()

=item B<DESTROY> 

See Mail::Reporter::DESTROY()

=item B<inGlobalDestruction> 

See Mail::Reporter::inGlobalDestruction()

=item B<logPriority> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::logPriority()

=item B<logSettings> 

See Mail::Reporter::logSettings()

=item B<notImplemented> 

See Mail::Reporter::notImplemented()

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

A good start to read is Mail::Box-Overview.
More documentation and a mailinglist are available from the project's
website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark Overmeer (L<mark@overmeer.net|mailto:mark@overmeer.net>) with the help of many.

=head1 VERSION

This code is beta, version 2.025.

Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Mark Overmeer. All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
