=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS - Convert HTML into PostScript

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS
   is a Mail::Message::Convert
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS;
 my $af = Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS->new;

 my $postscript = $af->format($body);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Translate an HTML/XHTML message body into a postscript body
using HTML::FormatPS.

See L<documentation in the base class|Mail::Message::Convert/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

See L<documentation in the base class|Mail::Message::Convert/"METHODS">.
 
=head2 Constructors

See L<documentation in the base class|Mail::Message::Convert/"Constructors">.
 
=over 4

=item Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

OPTIONS which start with capitals are blindly passed to HTML::FormatPS.
As of this writing, that package
defines BottomMargin, FontFamily, FontScale, HorizontalMargin, Leading,
LeftMargin, PageNo, PaperHeight, PaperSize, PaperWidth, RightMargin,
TopMargin, and VerticalMargin.

 -Option--Defined in            --Default
  fields  Mail::Message::Convert  <not used>
  log     Mail::Reporter          'WARNINGS'
  trace   Mail::Reporter          'WARNINGS'

=over 2

=item fields => NAMES|ARRAY-OF-NAMES|REGEXS

=item log => LEVEL

=item trace => LEVEL

=back

=back

=head2 Converting

See L<documentation in the base class|Mail::Message::Convert/"Converting">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<format>(BODY)

Pass an html/xhtml encoded body, and a plain text body is returned.
Characters are translated into Latin1.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<selectedFields>(HEAD)

See L<Mail::Message::Convert/"Converting">

=back

=head2 Error handling

See L<documentation in the base class|Mail::Message::Convert/"Error handling">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>()

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=item Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<errors>()

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=item Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=item Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>()

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>()

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<warnings>()

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

See L<documentation in the base class|Mail::Message::Convert/"Cleanup">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>()

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.110,
built on January 05, 2014. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2014 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

