
=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Convert::MimeEntity - translate Mail::Message to MIME::Entity vv


=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Convert::MimeEntity
   is a Mail::Message::Convert
   is a Mail::Reporter


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Mail::Message::Convert::MimeEntity;
 my $convert = Mail::Message::Convert::MimeEntity->new;

 my Mail::Message $msg    = Mail::Message->new;
 my MIME::Entity  $entity = $convert->export($msg);

 my MIME::Entity  $entity = MIME::Entity->new;
 my Mail::Message $msg    = $convert->from($entity);

 use Mail::Box::Manager;
 my $mgr     = Mail::Box::Manager->new;
 my $folder  = $mgr->open(folder => 'Outbox');
 $folder->addMessage($entity);


=head1 DESCRIPTION

The MIME::Entity extends Mail::Internet message with multiparts
and more methods.  The L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message> objects are more flexible
in how the message parts are stored, and uses separate header and body
objects.



=head1 METHODS


=head2 Constructors


Mail::Message::Convert::MimeEntity-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Convert/"METHODS">

=back

=head2 Converting


$obj-E<gt>B<export>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Returns a new message object based on the information from
a L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message> object.  The MESSAGE specified is an
instance of a Mail::Message.

I<Example:> 

 my $convert = Mail::Message::Convert::MimeEntity->new;
 my Mail::Message $msg  = Mail::Message->new;
 my MIME::Entity  $copy = $convert->export($msg);

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<from>(OBJECT, [CONTAINER])

=over 4

Returns a new L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message> object based on the information from
an message-type which is foreign to the Mail::Box set of modules.

I<Example:> 

 my $convert = Mail::Message::Convert::MimeEntity->new;
 my MIME::Entity  $msg  = MIME::Entity->new;
 my Mail::Message $copy = $convert->from($msg);

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<selectedFields>(HEAD)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Convert/"Converting">

=back

=head2 Error handling


$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

Mail::Message::Convert::MimeEntity-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::Convert::MimeEntity-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::Convert::MimeEntity-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup


$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back



=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.






=head1 REFERENCES

See the MailBox website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Distribution version 2.047.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


