
=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64 - encode/decode base64 message bodies


=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64
   is a Mail::Message::TransferEnc
   is a Mail::Reporter


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my Mail::Message $msg = ...;
 my $decoded = $msg->decoded;
 my $encoded = $msg->encode(transfer => 'base64');


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Encode or decode message bodies with base64.  The e-mail protocol and
user agents can not handle binary data.  Therefore, binary data -but
even sometimes non-binary data- is encoded into ASCII, this is
transportable.

Base64 re-groups the bits of bytes, and maps them on characters. The
data contains bytes of 8 bits (an I<octet>).  These are repacked into
groups of 6 bits, pointing in an array of characters containing
C<[A-Za-z0-9+/]>.  This way, three data bytes become 4 base64 bytes.
The encoded data will be trailed by C<'='> characters to align on
four bytes.



=head1 METHODS


=head2 Constructors


Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Constructors">

=back

=head2 The Encoder


Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64-E<gt>B<addTransferEncoder>(TYPE, CLASS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<create>(TYPE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

=head2 Encoding


$obj-E<gt>B<check>(BODY, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"Encoding">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<decode>(BODY, OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option       Defined in                     Default              
 result_type  L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc>  <type of source body>

. result_type CLASS

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<encode>(BODY, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"Encoding">

=back

=head2 Error handling


$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup


$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back



=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Warning:> Base64 line length not padded on 4.

While decoding base64 the data in a message body, a string was found which
was not padded into a multiple of four bytes.  This is illegal, and therefore
this data is ignored.

I<Error:> Decoder for transfer encoding $type does not work: $@

Compiling the required transfer encoding resulted in errors, which means
that the decoder can not be used.

I<Warning:> No decoder for transfer encoding $type.

A decoder for the specified type of transfer encoding is not implemented.

I<Error:> Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.






=head1 REFERENCES

See the MailBox website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Distribution version 2.064.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


