
=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::QuotedPrint - handle quoted-printable message bodies


=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::TransferEnc::QuotedPrint
   is a Mail::Message::TransferEnc
   is a Mail::Reporter


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my Mail::Message $msg = ...;
 my $decoded = $msg->decoded;
 my $encoded = $msg->encode(transfer => 'quoted-printable');


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Encode and decode message bodies for quoted-printable transfer encoding.
The Quoted-Printable encoding is intended
to represent data that largely consists of bytes that correspond to
printable characters in the ASCII character set.  Non-printable
characters (as defined by English Americans) are represented by a
triplet consisting of the character "=" followed by two hexadecimal
digits.



=head1 METHODS


=head2 Constructors


Mail::Message::TransferEnc::QuotedPrint-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Constructors">

=back

=head2 The Encoder


Mail::Message::TransferEnc::QuotedPrint-E<gt>B<addTransferEncoder>(TYPE, CLASS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<create>(TYPE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

=head2 Encoding


$obj-E<gt>B<check>(BODY, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"Encoding">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<decode>(BODY, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Decoding is tricky, and not without loss of information.  Lines will
stay separate lines, although they might have been joined before the
encoding split them up.  Characters which are not printable will be
replaced by their octal value, and carriage returns (C<'=0D'>) at
end of line are removed.

S<< Option     --Defined in                   --Default >>
S<< result_type  L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc>  <type of source body> >>

. result_type CLASS

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<encode>(BODY, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Encoding is to quoted-printable is a careful process: All characters
outside the normal printing range, and including C<'='> are encoded.
They are translated into a C<'='> followed by a two digit hex of the
ascii value of the character.  The same treatment is for white-spaces
at the end of a line.

The lines which are constructed which must be 76 characters max, not
broken on encoded characters.

S<< Option     --Defined in                   --Default >>
S<< result_type  L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc>  <type of source body> >>

. result_type CLASS

=back

=head2 Error handling


$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::QuotedPrint-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::QuotedPrint-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::QuotedPrint-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup


$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back




=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> Decoder for transfer encoding $type does not work: $@

Compiling the required transfer encoding resulted in errors, which means
that the decoder can not be used.

I<Warning:> No decoder for transfer encoding $type.

A decoder for the specified type of transfer encoding is not implemented.

I<Error:> Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.






=head1 REFERENCES

See the MailBox website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Distribution version 2.067.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2001-2006 by the author(s). All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


