
=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::SevenBit - encode/decode 7bit message bodies


=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::TransferEnc::SevenBit
   is a Mail::Message::TransferEnc
   is a Mail::Reporter


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my Mail::Message $msg = ...;
 my $decoded = $msg->decoded;
 my $encoded = $msg->encode(transfer => '7bit');


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Encode or decode message bodies for 7bit transfer encoding.  This is
only very little encoding.  According to the specs:

RFC-2045 Section 2.7 defines legal `7bit' data:

  "7bit data" refers to data that is all represented as relatively
  short lines with 998 octets or less between CRLF line separation
  sequences [RFC-821].  No octets with decimal values greater than 127
  are allowed and neither are NULs (octets with decimal value 0).  CR
  (decimal value 13) and LF (decimal value 10) octets only occur as
  part of CRLF line separation sequences.

As you can safely conclude: decoding of these bodies is no work
at all.



=head1 METHODS


=head2 Constructors


Mail::Message::TransferEnc::SevenBit-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Constructors">

=back

=head2 The Encoder


Mail::Message::TransferEnc::SevenBit-E<gt>B<addTransferEncoder>(TYPE, CLASS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<create>(TYPE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

=head2 Encoding


$obj-E<gt>B<check>(BODY, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"Encoding">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<decode>(BODY [, OPTIONS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"Encoding">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<encode>(BODY, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"Encoding">

=back

=head2 Error handling


$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::SevenBit-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::SevenBit-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::SevenBit-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup


$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back



=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> Decoder for transfer encoding $type does not work: $@

Compiling the required transfer encoding resulted in errors, which means
that the decoder can not be used.

I<Warning:> No decoder for transfer encoding $type.

A decoder for the specified type of transfer encoding is not implemented.

I<Error:> Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.






=head1 REFERENCES

See the MailBox website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Distribution version 2.065.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


