
=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Wrapper::SpamAssassin - Connect a Mail::Message with Mail::SpamAssassin

=head1 CLASS INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Wrapper::SpamAssassin
   is a Mail::SpamAssassin::Message

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # See Mail::Box::Search::SpamAssassin for the prefered interface
 # However, it is possible to do:

 my $msg    = ...;   # some Mail::Message object
 my $sa     = Mail::Message::Wrapper::SpamAssassin->new($msg);
 my $spam   = Mail::SpamAssassin->new;
 my $status = $spam->check($sa);

 $msg->label(spam => 1) if $status->is_spam;
 $status->rewrite_mail;  # Adds spam lines to header

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Mail::Message::Wrapper::SpamAssassin class --sorry for the long package
name-- is a wrapper aroung Mail::SpamAssassin::Message, which is an
interface to the spam checking software of Mail::SpamAssassin.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Initiation

=over 4

=item B<new> MESSAGE, OPTIONS

(Class method) 
Creates a wrapper around the MESSAGE.  There are no OPTIONS defined
yet.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

A good start to read is Mail::Box-Overview.
More documentation and a mailinglist are available from the project's
website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Mark Overmeer (L<mark@overmeer.net|mailto:mark@overmeer.net>)
with the help of many.  See the ChangeLog for details.

=head1 VERSION

This code is beta, version 2.039.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the authors. All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
