
=head1 NAME


Mail::Message::TransferEnc - message transfer encoder/decoder

=head1 CLASS INHERITANCE

Mail::Message::TransferEnc
   is a Mail::Reporter

Mail::Message::TransferEnc is extended by
   Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64
   Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Binary
   Mail::Message::TransferEnc::EightBit
   Mail::Message::TransferEnc::QuotedPrint
   Mail::Message::TransferEnc::SevenBit

=head1 SYNOPSIS


 my Mail::Message $msg = ...;
 my $decoded = $msg->decoded;
 my $encoded = $msg->encode(transfer => 'base64');

=head1 DESCRIPTION


This class is the base for various encoders and decoders, which are
used during transport of the message.  This packages, and all which are
derived, are invoked by the message's Mail::Message::decoded() and
Mail::Message::encode() methods:

 my $message = $folder->message(3);
 my $decoded_body = $message->decoded;
 my $encoded_body = $message->encode(transfer => 'base64');

The following coders/decoders are currently available:

=over 4

=item * C<base64> via Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64

=item * C<7bit> via Mail::Message::TransferEnc::SevenBit

=item * C<8bit> via Mail::Message::TransferEnc::EightBit

=item * C<quoted-printable> via Mail::Message::TransferEnc::QuotedPrint

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Initiation

=over 4

=item B<new> OPTIONS X<new>

 OPTION               DEFAULT
 log                  'WARNINGS'
 trace                'WARNINGS'

=over 4

=item B<log> =E<gt> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::new(log)

=item B<trace> =E<gt> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::new(trace)

=back

=back

=head2 The Encoder

=over 4

=item B<addTransferEncoder> TYPE, CLASS X<addTransferEncoder>

(Class method)
Adds one new encoder to the list known by the Mail::Box suite.  The
TYPE is found in the message's header in the C<Content-Transfer-Encoding>
field.

=item B<create> TYPE, OPTIONS X<create>

Create a new coder/decoder based on the required type.

=item B<name>  X<name>

The name of the encoder.  Case is not significant.

=back

=head2 Encoding

=over 4

=item B<check> BODY, OPTIONS X<check>

Check whether the body is correctly encoded.  If so, the body reference is
returned with the C<checked> flag set.  Otherwise, a new object is created
and returned.

 OPTION               DEFAULT
 result_type          <type of source body>

=over 4

=item B<result_type> =E<gt> CLASS X<check(result_type)>

The type of the body to be produced, when the checker decides to return
modified data.

=back

=item B<decode> BODY [, OPTIONS] X<decode>

Use the encoder to decode the content of BODY.  A new body is returned.

 OPTION               DEFAULT
 result_type          <type of source body>

=over 4

=item B<result_type> =E<gt> CLASS X<decode(result_type)>

The type of the body to be produced, when the decoder decides to return
modified data.

=back

=item B<encode> BODY, OPTIONS X<encode>

Use the encoder to encode the content of BODY.

 OPTION               DEFAULT
 result_type          <type of source body>

=over 4

=item B<result_type> =E<gt> CLASS X<encode(result_type)>

The type of the body to be produced, when the decoder decides to return
modified data.

=back

=back

=head2 Logging and Tracing

=over 4

=item B<defaultTrace> [LEVEL, [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::defaultTrace()

=item B<errors> 

See Mail::Reporter::errors()

=item B<log> [LEVEL [,STRINGS]]

See Mail::Reporter::log()

=item B<report> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::report()

=item B<reportAll> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::reportAll()

=item B<trace> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::trace()

=item B<warnings> 

See Mail::Reporter::warnings()

=back

=head2 Other Methods

=over 4

=item B<AUTOLOAD> 

See Mail::Reporter::AUTOLOAD()

=item B<DESTROY> 

See Mail::Reporter::DESTROY()

=item B<inGlobalDestruction> 

See Mail::Reporter::inGlobalDestruction()

=item B<logPriority> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::logPriority()

=item B<logSettings> 

See Mail::Reporter::logSettings()

=item B<notImplemented> 

See Mail::Reporter::notImplemented()

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

A good start to read is Mail::Box-Overview.
More documentation and a mailinglist are available from the project's
website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark Overmeer (L<mark@overmeer.net|mailto:mark@overmeer.net>) with the help of many.

=head1 VERSION

This code is beta, version 2.024.

Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Mark Overmeer. All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
