
=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::Dir - handle folders with a file per message.


=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Box::Dir
   is a Mail::Box
   is a Mail::Reporter

 Mail::Box::Dir is extended by
   Mail::Box::MH
   Mail::Box::Maildir


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # Do not instantiate this object


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This documentation describes the way directory organized mailboxes work.
At the moment, this object is extended by

=over 4

=item * L<Mail::Box::MH|Mail::Box::MH>

MH folders, which are represented by a directory containing files which
are sequentially numbered.

=item * L<Mail::Box::Maildir|Mail::Box::Maildir>

Maildir folders, which are located in a directory which has sub-directories
named C<tmp>, C<new>, and C<cur>.  Each of these directories may contain
files with names which are a combination of a numeric timestamp and some
status flags.

=back


=head1 OVERLOADED


overload: B<"">

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<@{}>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<cmp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back


=head1 METHODS


=head2 Constructors


$obj-E<gt>B<create>(FOLDERNAME, OPTIONS)

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<create>(FOLDERNAME, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Constructors">

=back

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option             Defined in       Default                                                         
 access             L<Mail::Box>     C<'r'>                                                          
 body_delayed_type  L<Mail::Box>     L<Mail::Message::Body::Delayed|Mail::Message::Body::Delayed>    
 body_type          L<Mail::Box>     L<Mail::Message::Body::Lines|Mail::Message::Body::Lines>        
 coerce_options     L<Mail::Box>     C<[]>                                                           
 create             L<Mail::Box>     <false>                                                         
 extract            L<Mail::Box>     C<10240>                                                        
 field_type         L<Mail::Box>     undef                                                           
 fix_headers        L<Mail::Box>     <false>                                                         
 folder             L<Mail::Box>     C<$ENV{MAIL}>                                                   
 folderdir          L<Mail::Box>     undef                                                           
 head_delayed_type  L<Mail::Box>     L<Mail::Message::Head::Delayed|Mail::Message::Head::Delayed>    
 head_type          L<Mail::Box>     L<Mail::Message::Head::Complete|Mail::Message::Head::Complete>  
 keep_dups          L<Mail::Box>     <false>                                                         
 lock_file          L<Mail::Box>     <folder>C</.lock>                                               
 lock_timeout       L<Mail::Box>     1 hour                                                          
 lock_type          L<Mail::Box>     L<Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock|Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock>        
 lock_wait          L<Mail::Box>     10 seconds                                                      
 locker             L<Mail::Box>     undef                                                           
 log                L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>                                                   
 manager            L<Mail::Box>     undef                                                           
 message_type       L<Mail::Box>     L<Mail::Box::Message|Mail::Box::Message>                        
 multipart_type     L<Mail::Box>     L<Mail::Message::Body::Multipart|Mail::Message::Body::Multipart>
 remove_when_empty  L<Mail::Box>     <true>                                                          
 save_on_exit       L<Mail::Box>     <true>                                                          
 trace              L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>                                                   
 trusted            L<Mail::Box>     <depends on folder location>                                    

. access MODE

. body_delayed_type CLASS

. body_type CLASS|CODE

. coerce_options ARRAY

. create BOOLEAN

. extract INTEGER | CODE | METHOD | 'LAZY'|'ALWAYS'

. field_type CLASS

. fix_headers BOOLEAN

. folder FOLDERNAME

. folderdir DIRECTORY

. head_delayed_type CLASS

. head_type CLASS

. keep_dups BOOLEAN

. lock_file FILENAME

. lock_timeout SECONDS

. lock_type CLASS|STRING

. lock_wait SECONDS

. locker OBJECT

. log LEVEL

. manager MANAGER

. message_type CLASS

. multipart_type CLASS

. remove_when_empty BOOLEAN

. save_on_exit BOOLEAN

. trace LEVEL

. trusted BOOLEAN

=back

=head2 The folder


$obj-E<gt>B<addMessage>(MESSAGE)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addMessages>(MESSAGE [, MESSAGE, ...])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<appendMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<close>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<copyTo>(FOLDER, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<delete>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<directory>

=over 4

Returns the directory related to this folder.

I<Example:> 

 print $folder->directory;

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folderdir>([DIRECTORY])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<foundIn>([FOLDERNAME], OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<organization>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<size>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<update>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<url>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

=head2 Folder flags


$obj-E<gt>B<isModified>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<modified>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writable>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

=head2 The messages


$obj-E<gt>B<current>([NUMBER|MESSAGE|MESSAGE-ID])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<find>(MESSAGE-ID)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<findFirstLabeled>(LABEL, [BOOLEAN, [ARRAY-OF-MSGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<message>(INDEX [,MESSAGE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageId>(MESSAGE-ID [,MESSAGE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageIds>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messages>(['ALL',RANGE,'ACTIVE','DELETED',LABEL,!LABEL,FILTER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<scanForMessages>(MESSAGE, MESSAGE-IDS, TIMESPAN, WINDOW)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

=head2 Sub-folders


$obj-E<gt>B<listSubFolders>(OPTIONS)

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<listSubFolders>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nameOfSubFolder>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<openRelatedFolder>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<openSubFolder>(NAME, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

=head2 Internals


$obj-E<gt>B<coerce>(MESSAGE)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<determineBodyType>(MESSAGE, HEAD)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folderToDirectory>(FOLDERNAME, FOLDERDIR)

=over 4

(class method)  Translate a foldername into a filename, with use of the
FOLDERDIR to replace a leading C<=>.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<lineSeparator>([STRING|'CR'|'LF'|'CRLF'])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<locker>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<read>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readMessageFilenames>(DIRECTORY)

=over 4

Returns a list of all filenames which are found in this folder
directory and represent a message.  The filenames are returned as
relative path.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<storeMessage>(MESSAGE)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toBeThreaded>(MESSAGES)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toBeUnthreaded>(MESSAGES)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<updateMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<write>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writeMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

=head2 Other methods


$obj-E<gt>B<timespan2seconds>(TIME)

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<timespan2seconds>(TIME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Other methods">

=back

=head2 Error handling


$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup


$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back



=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Warning:> Changes not written to read-only folder $self.

You have opened the folder read-only --which is the default set
by L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">--, made modifications, and now want to close it.
Set L<close(force)|Mail::Box/"The folder"> if you want to overrule the access mode, or close
the folder with L<close(write)|Mail::Box/"The folder"> set to C<NEVER>.

I<Error:> Copying failed for one message.

For some reason, for instance disc full, removed by external process, or
read-protection, it is impossible to copy one of the messages.  Copying will
proceed for the other messages.

I<Error:> Destination folder $name is not writable.

The folder where the messages are copied to is not opened with write
access (see L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">).  This has no relation with write permission
to the folder which is controled by your operating system.

I<Warning:> Different messages with id $msgid.

The message id is discovered more than once within the same folder, but the
content of the message seems to be different.  This should not be possible:
each message must be unique.

I<Error:> Folder $name is opened read-only

You can not write to this folder unless you have opened the folder to
write or append with L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">, or the C<force> option is set true.

I<Error:> Folder $name not deleted: not writable.

The folder must be opened with write access via L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">, otherwise
removing it will be refused.  So, you may have write-access according to
the operating system, but that will not automatically mean that this
C<delete> method permits you to.  The reverse remark is valid as well.

I<Warning:> Folder directory $directory is write-protected.

The folder directory does already exist and is write protected, which may
interfere with the requested write access.  Change new(access) or the
permissions on the directory.

I<Error:> Invalid timespan '$timespan' specified.

The string does not follow the strict rules of the time span syntax which
is permitted as parameter.

I<Warning:> Message-id '$msgid' does not contain a domain.

According to the RFCs, message-ids need to contain a unique random part,
then an C<@>, and then a domain name.  This is made to avoid the creation
of two messages with the same id.  The warning emerges when the C<@> is
missing from the string.

I<Error:> Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

I<Error:> Unable to create subfolder $name of $folder.

The copy includes the subfolders, but for some reason it was not possible
to copy one of these.  Copying will proceed for all other sub-folders.

I<Error:> Writing folder $name failed

For some reason (you probably got more error messages about this problem)
it is impossible to write the folder, although you should because there
were changes made.


=head1 DETAILS






=head1 REFERENCES

See the MailBox website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Distribution version 2.053.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


