
=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::Maildir - handle Maildir folders


=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Box::Maildir
   is a Mail::Box::Dir
   is a Mail::Box
   is a Mail::Reporter


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Mail::Box::Maildir;
 my $folder = new Mail::Box::Maildir folder => $ENV{MAIL}, ...;


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This documentation describes how Maildir mailboxes work, and what you
can do with the Maildir folder object C<Mail::Box::Maildir>.

Maildir is B<not supported for Windows>, because it create filenames
which are not accepted by the Windows system.


=head1 OVERLOADED


overload: B<"">

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<@{}>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<cmp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back


=head1 METHODS


=head2 Constructors


$obj-E<gt>B<create>(FOLDERNAME, OPTIONS)

Mail::Box::Maildir-E<gt>B<create>(FOLDERNAME, OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option     Defined in    Default
 folderdir  L<Mail::Box>  undef  

. folderdir DIRECTORY

=back

Mail::Box::Maildir-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option             Defined in       Default                                                         
 accept_new                          <false>                                                         
 access             L<Mail::Box>     C<'r'>                                                          
 body_delayed_type  L<Mail::Box>     L<Mail::Message::Body::Delayed|Mail::Message::Body::Delayed>    
 body_type          L<Mail::Box>     L<Mail::Message::Body::Lines|Mail::Message::Body::Lines>        
 coerce_options     L<Mail::Box>     C<[]>                                                           
 create             L<Mail::Box>     <false>                                                         
 extract            L<Mail::Box>     C<10240>                                                        
 field_type         L<Mail::Box>     undef                                                           
 fix_headers        L<Mail::Box>     <false>                                                         
 folder             L<Mail::Box>     C<$ENV{MAIL}>                                                   
 folderdir          L<Mail::Box>     C<$ENV{HOME}/.maildir>                                          
 head_delayed_type  L<Mail::Box>     L<Mail::Message::Head::Delayed|Mail::Message::Head::Delayed>    
 head_type          L<Mail::Box>     L<Mail::Message::Head::Complete|Mail::Message::Head::Complete>  
 keep_dups          L<Mail::Box>     <false>                                                         
 lock_file          L<Mail::Box>     <not used>                                                      
 lock_timeout       L<Mail::Box>     <not used>                                                      
 lock_type          L<Mail::Box>     C<'NONE'> (constant)                                            
 lock_wait          L<Mail::Box>     <not used>                                                      
 locker             L<Mail::Box>     undef                                                           
 log                L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>                                                   
 manager            L<Mail::Box>     undef                                                           
 message_type       L<Mail::Box>     L<Mail::Box::Message|Mail::Box::Message>                        
 multipart_type     L<Mail::Box>     L<Mail::Message::Body::Multipart|Mail::Message::Body::Multipart>
 remove_when_empty  L<Mail::Box>     <true>                                                          
 save_on_exit       L<Mail::Box>     <true>                                                          
 trace              L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>                                                   
 trusted            L<Mail::Box>     <depends on folder location>                                    

. accept_new BOOLEAN

=over 4

When the folder is open, some messages may be stored in the C<new>
sub-directory.  By default, these messages are immediately moved to
the C<cur> directory when the folder is opened.  Otherwise, you have
to call L<acceptMessages()|Mail::Box::Maildir/"Internals"> or L<Mail::Box::Maildir::Message::accept()|Mail::Box::Maildir::Message/"Internals">.

=back

. access MODE

. body_delayed_type CLASS

. body_type CLASS|CODE

. coerce_options ARRAY

. create BOOLEAN

. extract INTEGER | CODE | METHOD | 'LAZY'|'ALWAYS'

. field_type CLASS

. fix_headers BOOLEAN

. folder FOLDERNAME

. folderdir DIRECTORY

. head_delayed_type CLASS

. head_type CLASS

. keep_dups BOOLEAN

. lock_file FILENAME

. lock_timeout SECONDS

. lock_type CLASS|STRING

. lock_wait SECONDS

. locker OBJECT

. log LEVEL

. manager MANAGER

. message_type CLASS

. multipart_type CLASS

. remove_when_empty BOOLEAN

. save_on_exit BOOLEAN

. trace LEVEL

. trusted BOOLEAN

=back

=head2 The folder


$obj-E<gt>B<addMessage>(MESSAGE)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addMessages>(MESSAGE [, MESSAGE, ...])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

Mail::Box::Maildir-E<gt>B<appendMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<close>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<copyTo>(FOLDER, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<delete>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<directory>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Dir/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folderdir>([DIRECTORY])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

Mail::Box::Maildir-E<gt>B<foundIn>([FOLDERNAME], OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<organization>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<size>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<update>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<url>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

=head2 Folder flags


$obj-E<gt>B<isModified>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<modified>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writable>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

=head2 The messages


$obj-E<gt>B<current>([NUMBER|MESSAGE|MESSAGE-ID])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<find>(MESSAGE-ID)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<message>(INDEX [,MESSAGE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageId>(MESSAGE-ID [,MESSAGE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageIds>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messages>(['ALL',RANGE,'ACTIVE','DELETED',LABEL,!LABEL,FILTER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<scanForMessages>(MESSAGE, MESSAGE-IDS, TIMESPAN, WINDOW)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

=head2 Sub-folders


$obj-E<gt>B<listSubFolders>(OPTIONS)

Mail::Box::Maildir-E<gt>B<listSubFolders>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nameOfSubFolder>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<openRelatedFolder>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<openSubFolder>(NAME, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

=head2 Internals


$obj-E<gt>B<acceptMessages>

=over 4

Accept all messages which are waiting in the C<new> directory to be
moved to the C<cur> directory.  This will not rescan the directory
for newly arrived messages, because that's a task for L<update()|Mail::Box/"The folder">.

=back

Mail::Box::Maildir-E<gt>B<appendMessage>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<coerce>(MESSAGE)

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<createDirs>(FOLDERDIR)

Mail::Box::Maildir-E<gt>B<createDirs>(FOLDERDIR)

=over 4

The FOLDERDIR contains the absolute path of the location where the
messages are kept.  Maildir folders contain a C<tmp>, C<new>, and
C<cur> sub-directory within that folder directory as well.  This
method will ensure that all directories exist.
Returns false on failure.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<determineBodyType>(MESSAGE, HEAD)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folderIsEmpty>(FOLDERDIR)

Mail::Box::Maildir-E<gt>B<folderIsEmpty>(FOLDERDIR)

=over 4

Checks whether the folder whose directory is specified as absolute FOLDERDIR
is empty or not.  A folder is empty when the C<tmp>, C<new>, and C<cur>
subdirectories are empty and some files which are left there by application
programs.  The maildir spec explicitly states: C<.qmail>, C<bulletintime>,
C<bulletinlock> and C<seriallock>.  If any other files are found, the
directory is considered not-empty.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folderToDirectory>(FOLDERNAME, FOLDERDIR)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Dir/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<lineSeparator>([STRING|'CR'|'LF'|'CRLF'])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<locker>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<read>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readMessageFilenames>(DIRECTORY)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Dir/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<storeMessage>(MESSAGE)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toBeThreaded>(MESSAGES)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toBeUnthreaded>(MESSAGES)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<updateMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<write>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writeMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

=head2 Other methods


$obj-E<gt>B<timespan2seconds>(TIME)

Mail::Box::Maildir-E<gt>B<timespan2seconds>(TIME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Other methods">

=back

=head2 Error handling


$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

Mail::Box::Maildir-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Box::Maildir-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Box::Maildir-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup


$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back



=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> Cannot append Maildir message in $new to folder $self.

The message (or messages) could not be stored in the right directories
for the Maildir folder.

I<Error:> Cannot create Maildir directory $dir: $!

A Maildir folder is represented by a directory, with some sub-directories.  The
top folder directory could not be created for the reason indicated.

I<Error:> Cannot create Maildir folder $name.

One or more of the directories required to administer a Maildir folder
could not be created.

I<Error:> Cannot create Maildir message file $new.

A message is converted from some other message format into a Maildir format
by writing it to a file with a name which contains the status flags of the
message.  Apparently, creating this file failed.

I<Error:> Cannot create Maildir subdir $dir: $!

Each Maildir folder has three sub-directories for administration: C<new>,
C<tmp>, and C<cur>.  The mentioned directory could not be created for
the indicated reason.

I<Warning:> Changes not written to read-only folder $self.

You have opened the folder read-only --which is the default set
by L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">--, made modifications, and now want to close it.
Set L<close(force)|Mail::Box/"The folder"> if you want to overrule the access mode, or close
the folder with L<close(write)|Mail::Box/"The folder"> set to C<NEVER>.

I<Error:> Copying failed for one message.

For some reason, for instance disc full, removed by external process, or
read-protection, it is impossible to copy one of the messages.  Copying will
proceed for the other messages.

I<Error:> Destination folder $name is not writable.

The folder where the messages are copied to is not opened with write
access (see L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">).  This has no relation with write permission
to the folder which is controled by your operating system.

I<Warning:> Different messages with id $msgid.

The message id is discovered more than once within the same folder, but the
content of the message seems to be different.  This should not be possible:
each message must be unique.

I<Error:> Folder $name is opened read-only

You can not write to this folder unless you have opened the folder to
write or append with L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">, or the C<force> option is set true.

I<Error:> Folder $name not deleted: not writable.

The folder must be opened with write access via L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">, otherwise
removing it will be refused.  So, you may have write-access according to
the operating system, but that will not automatically mean that this
C<delete> method permits you to.  The reverse remark is valid as well.

I<Error:> Invalid timespan '$timespan' specified.

The string does not follow the strict rules of the time span syntax which
is permitted as parameter.

I<Warning:> Message-id '$msgid' does not contain a domain.

According to the RFCs, message-ids need to contain a unique random part,
then an C<@>, and then a domain name.  This is made to avoid the creation
of two messages with the same id.  The warning emerges when the C<@> is
missing from the string.

I<Error:> Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

I<Error:> Unable to create subfolder $name of $folder.

The copy includes the subfolders, but for some reason it was not possible
to copy one of these.  Copying will proceed for all other sub-folders.

I<Error:> Writing folder $name failed

For some reason (you probably got more error messages about this problem)
it is impossible to write the folder, although you should because there
were changes made.


=head1 DETAILS

The explanation is complicated, but for normal use you should bother
yourself with all details.

=head2 How MAILDIR folders work

Maildir-type folders use a directory to store the messages of one folder.
Each message is stored in a separate file.  This seems useful, because
changes in a folder change only a few of these small files, in contrast with
file-based folders where changes in a folder cause rewrites of huge
folder-files.

However, Maildir based folders perform very bad if you need header information
of all messages.  For instance, if you want to have full knowledge about
all message-threads (see L<Mail::Box::Thread::Manager|Mail::Box::Thread::Manager>) in the folder, it
requires to read all header lines in all message files.  And usually, reading
your messages as threads is desired.  Maildir maintains a tiny amount
of info visible in the filename, which may make it perform just a little
bit faster than MH.





=head1 REFERENCES

See the MailBox website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Distribution version 2.045.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


