
=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup - A group of Mail::Message::Field::Address objects


=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup
   is a User::Identity::Collection::Emails
   is a User::Identity::Collection
   is a User::Identity::Item


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $g = Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup->new(name => 'name');

 my $a = Mail::Message::Field::Address->new(...);
 $g->addAddress($a);
 
 my $f = Mail::Message::Field::Addresses->new;
 $f->addGroup($g);


=head1 DESCRIPTION

An address group collects a set of e-mail addresses (in this case they
are L<Mail::Message::Field::Address|Mail::Message::Field::Address> objects).


=head1 OVERLOADED


overload: B<@{}>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<stringification>

=over 4

Returns the L<string()|Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup/"METHODS"> value.

=back


=head1 METHODS


$obj-E<gt>B<string>

=over 4

Returns the address group as string.  When no name is specified, it will
only be a comma separated list of addresses.  With a name, the groups
name will be prepended and a semi-colon appended.  When no addresses
where included and there is no name, then C<undef> is returned.

=back

=head2 Initiation


Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup-E<gt>B<new>([NAME], OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection::Emails/"Initiation">

=back

=head2 Attributes


$obj-E<gt>B<addRole>(ROLE| ( [NAME],OPTIONS ) | ARRAY-OF-OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<description>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<roles>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Attributes">

=back

=head2 Collections


$obj-E<gt>B<add>(COLLECTION, ROLE)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addCollection>(OBJECT | ([TYPE], OPTIONS))

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<collection>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<parent>([PARENT])

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>

Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup-E<gt>B<type>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<user>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

=head2 Searching


$obj-E<gt>B<find>(NAME|CODE|undef)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Searching">

=back

=head2 Constructors


$obj-E<gt>B<coerce>(OBJECT)

=over 4

Coerce an OBJECT into a L<Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup|Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup>.  Currently,
you can only coerce L<User::Identity::Collection::Emails|User::Identity::Collection::Emails> (which is
the base class for this one) into this one.

=back

=head2 Addresses


$obj-E<gt>B<addAddress>(STRING|ADDRESS|OPTIONS)

=over 4

Add one e-mail address to the list which is maintained in the group. This
is a wrapper around L<addRole()|User::Identity::Collection/"Attributes"> adding flexibility on how addresses
are specified.  An ADDRESS can be anything which is acceptable for
L<Mail::Message::Field::Address::coerce()|Mail::Message::Field::Address/"Constructors"> or a list of options which
will create such an object.

I<Example:> of adding an address to an address group


 my @data = (full_name => "Myself", address => 'me@tux.org');
 $group->addAddress(@data);

 my $addr = Mail::Message::Field::Address->new(@data);
 $group->addAddress(@data);

 my $ma = Mail::Address->new(...);
 $group->addAddress($ma);

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addresses>

=over 4

Returns all addresses defined in this group.  The addresses will be
ordered alphabetically to make automated testing possible: roles are
stored in a hash, so have an unpredictable order by default.

I<Example:> getting all addresses from a group


 my @addrs = $group->addresses;
 my @addrs = map { $_->address } $self->roles; #same

=back

=head2 Error handling




=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> $object is not a collection.

The first argument is an object, but not of a class which extends
L<User::Identity::Collection|User::Identity::Collection>.

I<Error:> Cannot coerce a $type into a Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup


I<Error:> Cannot create a $type to add this to my collection.

Some options are specified to create a $type object, which is native to
this collection.  However, for some reason this failed.

I<Error:> Cannot load collection module for $type ($class).

Either the specified $type does not exist, or that module named $class returns
compilation errors.  If the type as specified in the warning is not
the name of a package, you specified a nickname which was not defined.
Maybe you forgot the 'require' the package which defines the nickname.

I<Error:> Creation of a collection via $class failed.

The $class did compile, but it was not possible to create an object
of that class using the options you specified.

I<Error:> Don't know what type of collection you want to add.

If you add a collection, it must either by a collection object or a
list of options which can be used to create a collection object.  In
the latter case, the type of collection must be specified.

I<Warning:> No collection $name

The collection with $name does not exist and can not be created.

I<Error:> Wrong type of role for $collection: requires a $expect but got a $type

Each $collection groups sets of roles of one specific type ($expect).  You
cannot add objects of a different $type.






=head1 REFERENCES

See the MailBox website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Distribution version 2.054.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


