
=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Part - a part of a message, but a message by itself


=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Part
   is a Mail::Message
   is a Mail::Reporter


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my Mail::Message $message = ...;
 if($message->isMultipart) {
    my Mail::Message::Part $part;

    foreach $part ($message->body->parts) {
       $part->print(\*OUT);
       my $attached_head = $part->head;
       my $attached_body = $part->body;      # encoded as read
       my $attached_body = $part->decoded;   # transfer-encoding removed
    }
 }


=head1 DESCRIPTION

A C<Mail::Message::Part> object contains a message which is included in
the body of an other message.  For instance I<attachments> are I<parts>.

READ L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message> FIRST.  A part is a special message: it has a
reference to its parent message, and will usually not be sub-classed
into mail folder specific variants.



=head1 METHODS


$obj-E<gt>B<printEscapedFrom>(FILEHANDLE)

=over 4

Prints the message part, but all lines which start with 'From ' will get
a leading C<gt>.  See L<Mail::Message::Body::printEscapedFrom()|Mail::Message::Body/"Access to the payload">.

=back

=head2 Constructors


$obj-E<gt>B<clone>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Constructors">

=back

Mail::Message::Part-E<gt>B<coerce>(BODY|MESSAGE, MULTIPART, HEADERS)

=over 4

Transforms a BODY or MESSAGE to a real message part.  The MULTIPART
refers to the parental body.

When ta BODY is specified, extra HEADERS can be supplied as well.
Bodies are coerced into message parts by calling L<buildFromBody()|Mail::Message::Part/"METHODS">.
If you specify a MESSAGE residing in a folder, this message will
automatically be cloned.

=back

Mail::Message::Part-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

Create a message part.

 Option      Defined in       Default                                                       
 body        L<Mail::Message>  undef                                                         
 body_type   L<Mail::Message>  L<Mail::Message::Body::Lines|Mail::Message::Body::Lines>      
 container                    <required>                                                    
 field_type  L<Mail::Message>  undef                                                         
 head        L<Mail::Message>  <empty header>                                                
 head_type   L<Mail::Message>  L<Mail::Message::Head::Complete|Mail::Message::Head::Complete>
 labels      L<Mail::Message>  {}                                                            
 log         L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>                                                 
 messageId   L<Mail::Message>  undef                                                         
 modified    L<Mail::Message>  <false>                                                       
 trace       L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>                                                 
 trusted     L<Mail::Message>  <false>                                                       

. body OBJECT

. body_type CLASS

. container BODY

=over 4

Reference to the parental L<Mail::Message::Body|Mail::Message::Body> object where this part
is a member of.  That object may be a L<Mail::Message::Body::Multipart|Mail::Message::Body::Multipart>
or a L<Mail::Message::Body::Nested|Mail::Message::Body::Nested>.

=back

. field_type CLASS

. head OBJECT

. head_type CLASS

. labels ARRAY|HASH

. log LEVEL

. messageId STRING

. modified BOOLEAN

. trace LEVEL

. trusted BOOLEAN

=back

=head2 Constructing a message


$obj-E<gt>B<bounce>([RG-OBJECT|OPTIONS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Bounce/"Constructing a message">

=back

Mail::Message::Part-E<gt>B<build>([MESSAGE|BODY], CONTENT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Build/"Constructing a message">

=back

Mail::Message::Part-E<gt>B<buildFromBody>(BODY, CONTAINER, HEADERS)

=over 4

Shape a message part around a BODY.  Bodies have information about their
content in them, which is used to construct a header for the message.
Next to that, more HEADERS can be specified.  No headers are obligatory.
No extra headers are fabricated automatically.

I<Example:> 

 my $multi = Mail::Message::Body::Multipart->new;
 my $part  = Mail::Message::Part->buildFromBody($body, $multi);

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forward>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardAttach>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardEncapsulate>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardInline>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardNo>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardPostlude>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardPrelude>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardSubject>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

Mail::Message::Part-E<gt>B<read>(FILEHANDLE|SCALAR|REF-SCALAR|ARRAY-OF-LINES, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Read/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<rebuild>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Rebuild/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reply>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<replyPrelude>([STRING|FIELD|ADDRESS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<replySubject>(STRING)

Mail::Message::Part-E<gt>B<replySubject>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">

=back

=head2 The Message


$obj-E<gt>B<container>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The Message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDummy>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The Message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isPart>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The Message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageId>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The Message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<print>([FILEHANDLE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The Message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<send>([MAILER], OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The Message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<size>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The Message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toplevel>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The Message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<write>([FILEHANDLE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The Message">

=back

=head2 The header


$obj-E<gt>B<bcc>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<cc>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<date>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<destinations>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<from>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<get>(FIELDNAME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<guessTimestamp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<head>([HEAD])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nrLines>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<sender>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<study>(FIELDNAME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subject>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<timestamp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<to>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

=head2 The body


$obj-E<gt>B<body>([BODY])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<decoded>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<encode>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isMultipart>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isNested>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<parts>(['ALL'|'ACTIVE'|'DELETED'|'RECURSE'|FILTER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

=head2 Flags


$obj-E<gt>B<delete>

=over 4

Do not print or send this part of the message anymore.  See L<deleted()|Mail::Message::Part/"Flags">.
The time stamp of the moment of deletion is stored as value.  When the same
message is deleted more than once, the first time stamp will stay.

I<Example:> 

 $message->part(2)->delete;
 $part->deleted(1);
 delete $part;

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<deleted>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

Set the delete flag for this part of the multipart message body.  Without
argument, the method returns the same is the L<isDeleted()|Mail::Message::Part/"Flags"> method, which is
prefered.  When a true value is given, L<delete()|Mail::Message::Part/"Flags"> is called.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDeleted>

=over 4

Returns the moment (as the time function returns) when the message part was
flagged for deletion, or C<undef> when the part is not deleted.

I<Example:> 

 next if $part->isDeleted;

 if(my $when = $part->isDeleted) {
    print scalar localtime $when;
 }

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isModified>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<label>(LABEL [,VALUE [LABEL, VALUE] ])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<labels>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<labelsToStatus>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<modified>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<statusToLabels>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

=head2 The whole message as text


$obj-E<gt>B<file>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<lines>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<printStructure>([FILEHANDLE][, INDENT])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<string>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

=head2 Internals


$obj-E<gt>B<isDelayed>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readBody>(PARSER, HEAD [, BODYTYPE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readFromParser>(PARSER, [BODYTYPE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readHead>(PARSER [,CLASS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<recursiveRebuildPart>(PART, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Rebuild/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<storeBody>(BODY)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<takeMessageId>([STRING])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

=head2 Error handling


$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct/"METHODS">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

Mail::Message::Part-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::Part-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::Part-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<shortSize>([VALUE])

Mail::Message::Part-E<gt>B<shortSize>([VALUE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<shortString>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup


$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<destruct>

=over 4

Message parts can not be destructed per part: only whole messages can
be forcefully freed from memory.  Of course, you can L<delete()|Mail::Message::Part/"Flags"> separate
parts, which only sets a flag not to write a part again.  Furthermore,
you may cosider L<rebuild()|Mail::Message::Construct::Rebuild/"Constructing a message"> to get rit of deleted parts.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back



=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> Cannot include forward source as $include.

Unknown alternative for the L<forward(include)|Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">.  Valid choices are
C<NO>, C<INLINE>, C<ATTACH>, and C<ENCAPSULATE>.

I<Error:> Cannot include reply source as $include.

Unknown alternative for the C<include> option of L<reply()|Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">.  Valid
choices are C<NO>, C<INLINE>, and C<ATTACH>.

I<Error:> No address to create forwarded to.

If a forward message is created, a destination address must be specified.

I<Error:> No default mailer found to send message.

The message L<send()|Mail::Message/"The Message"> mechanism had not enough information to automatically
find a mail transfer agent to sent this message.  Specify a mailer
explicitly using the C<via> options.

I<Error:> Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

I<Error:> You cannot destruct message parts, only whole messages

Message parts can not be destructed per part: only whole messages can
be forcefully freed from memory. Consider L<delete()|Mail::Message::Part/"Flags"> or L<rebuild()|Mail::Message::Construct::Rebuild/"Constructing a message">.

I<Error:> forwardAttach requires a preamble object


I<Error:> forwardEncapsulate requires a preamble object


I<Error:> no rebuild rule $name defined.



=head1 DETAILS






=head1 REFERENCES

See the MailBox website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Distribution version 2.048.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


