=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock - lock a folder with a separate file

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock
   is a Mail::Box::Locker
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 See Mail::Box::Locker

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<::DotLock> object lock the folder by creating a file with the
same name as the folder, extended by C<.lock>.

See L<documentation in the base class|Mail::Box::Locker/"DESCRIPTION">.
 
=head1 METHODS

See L<documentation in the base class|Mail::Box::Locker/"METHODS">.
 
=head2 Constructors

See L<documentation in the base class|Mail::Box::Locker/"Constructors">.
 
=over 4

=item Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

Name of the file to lock.  By default, the folder's name is extended
with C<.lock>.

 -Option      --Defined in       --Default
  dotlock_file                     <undef>
  expires       Mail::Box::Locker  1 hour
  file          Mail::Box::Locker  <folderfile>.lock
  folder        Mail::Box::Locker  <undef>
  log           Mail::Reporter     'WARNINGS'
  method        Mail::Box::Locker  'DOTLOCK'
  timeout       Mail::Box::Locker  10 seconds
  trace         Mail::Reporter     'WARNINGS'

=over 2

=item dotlock_file => FILENAME

Alternative name for C<file>, especially useful to confusion when
the multi locker is used.

=item expires => SECONDS

=item file => FILENAME

=item folder => FOLDER

=item log => LEVEL

=item method => STRING|CLASS|ARRAY

=item timeout => SECONDS|'NOTIMEOUT'

=item trace => LEVEL

=back

=back

=head2 The Locker

See L<documentation in the base class|Mail::Box::Locker/"The Locker">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<filename>([FILENAME])

See L<Mail::Box::Locker/"The Locker">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<folder>([FOLDER])

See L<Mail::Box::Locker/"The Locker">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<name>()

See L<Mail::Box::Locker/"The Locker">

=back

=head2 Locking

See L<documentation in the base class|Mail::Box::Locker/"Locking">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<hasLock>()

See L<Mail::Box::Locker/"Locking">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<isLocked>()

See L<Mail::Box::Locker/"Locking">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<lock>()

=item $obj-E<gt>B<unlock>()

=back

=head2 Error handling

See L<documentation in the base class|Mail::Box::Locker/"Error handling">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>()

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=item Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<errors>()

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=item Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=item Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>()

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>()

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<warnings>()

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

See L<documentation in the base class|Mail::Box::Locker/"Cleanup">.
 
=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>()

See L<Mail::Box::Locker/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Warning: Couldn't remove lockfile $lock: $!

=item Error: Failed to remove expired lockfile $lockfile: $!

=item Warning: Folder already locked with file $lockfile

=item Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=item Warning: Removed expired lockfile $lockfile

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.110,
built on January 05, 2014. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2014 by [Mark Overmeer]. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

