
=head1 NAME


Mail::Box::File::Message - one message in a Mbox folder

=head1 CLASS INHERITANCE

Mail::Box::File::Message
   is a Mail::Box::Message
   is a Mail::Message
   is a Mail::Reporter

Mail::Box::File::Message is extended by
   Mail::Box::Mbox::Message

=head1 SYNOPSIS


 my $folder  = new Mail::Box::File folder => $ENV{MAIL}, ...;
 my $message = $folder->message(0);

=head1 DESCRIPTION


Maintain one message in an file-based folder.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Initiation

=over 4

=item B<new> OPTIONS X<new>

Messages in file-based folders use the following options for creation:

 OPTION               DEFAULT
 body                 undef
 body_type            <from folder>
 deleted              <false>
 field_type           undef
 folder               <required>
 from_line            undef
 head                 undef
 head_type            'Mail::Message::Head::Complete'
 log                  'WARNINGS'
 messageId            undef
 modified             <false>
 size                 undef
 trace                'WARNINGS'
 trusted              <false>

=over 4

=item B<body> =E<gt> OBJECT

See Mail::Message::new(body)

=item B<body_type> =E<gt> CODE|CLASS

See Mail::Box::Message::new(body_type)

=item B<deleted> =E<gt> BOOLEAN

See Mail::Box::Message::new(deleted)

=item B<field_type> =E<gt> CLASS

See Mail::Message::new(field_type)

=item B<folder> =E<gt> FOLDER

See Mail::Box::Message::new(folder)

=item B<from_line> =E<gt> STRING X<new(from_line)>

The line which begins each message in the file. Some people detest
this line, but this is just how things were invented...

=item B<head> =E<gt> OBJECT

See Mail::Message::new(head)

=item B<head_type> =E<gt> CLASS

See Mail::Message::new(head_type)

=item B<log> =E<gt> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::new(log)

=item B<messageId> =E<gt> STRING

See Mail::Message::new(messageId)

=item B<modified> =E<gt> BOOLEAN

See Mail::Message::new(modified)

=item B<size> =E<gt> INTEGER

See Mail::Box::Message::new(size)

=item B<trace> =E<gt> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::new(trace)

=item B<trusted> =E<gt> BOOLEAN

See Mail::Message::new(trusted)

=back

=back

=head2 Constructing a Message

=over 4

=item B<bounce> [RG-OBJECT|OPTIONS]

See Mail::Message::Construct::bounce()

=item B<build> [MESSAGE|BODY], CONTENT

See Mail::Message::Construct::build()

=item B<buildFromBody> BODY, HEADERS

See Mail::Message::Construct::buildFromBody()

=item B<coerce> MESSAGE

See Mail::Box::Message::coerce()

=item B<forward> OPTIONS

See Mail::Message::Construct::forward()

=item B<forwardPostlude> 

See Mail::Message::Construct::forwardPostlude()

=item B<forwardPrelude> 

See Mail::Message::Construct::forwardPrelude()

=item B<forwardSubject> STRING

See Mail::Message::Construct::forwardSubject()

=item B<reply> OPTIONS

See Mail::Message::Construct::reply()

=item B<replyPrelude> [STRING|FIELD|ADDRESS]

See Mail::Message::Construct::replyPrelude()

=item B<replySubject> STRING

See Mail::Message::Construct::replySubject()

=back

=head2 The Message

=over 4

=item B<clone> 

See Mail::Message::clone()

=item B<copyTo> FOLDER

See Mail::Box::Message::copyTo()

=item B<folder> [FOLDER]

See Mail::Box::Message::folder()

=item B<isDummy> 

See Mail::Message::isDummy()

=item B<isPart> 

See Mail::Message::isPart()

=item B<messageId> 

See Mail::Message::messageId()

=item B<modified> [BOOLEAN]

See Mail::Message::modified()

=item B<moveTo> FOLDER

See Mail::Box::Message::moveTo()

=item B<parent> 

See Mail::Message::parent()

=item B<print> [FILEHANDLE] X<print>

Write one message to a file handle.  Unmodified messages are taken
from the folder-file where they were stored.  Modified messages
are written to memory.  Specify a FILEHANDLE to write to
(defaults to the selected handle).

=item B<send> [MAILER], OPTIONS

See Mail::Message::send()

=item B<seqnr> [INTEGER]

See Mail::Box::Message::seqnr()

=item B<size> 

See Mail::Message::size()

=item B<toplevel> 

See Mail::Message::toplevel()

=back

=head2 The Header

=over 4

=item B<head> [HEAD]

See Mail::Message::head()

=back

=head2 Header Shortcuts

=over 4

=item B<bcc> 

See Mail::Message::bcc()

=item B<cc> 

See Mail::Message::cc()

=item B<date> 

See Mail::Message::date()

=item B<destinations> 

See Mail::Message::destinations()

=item B<from> 

See Mail::Message::from()

=item B<get> FIELD

See Mail::Message::get()

=item B<guessTimestamp> 

See Mail::Message::guessTimestamp()

=item B<nrLines> 

See Mail::Message::nrLines()

=item B<sender> 

See Mail::Message::sender()

=item B<subject> 

See Mail::Message::subject()

=item B<timestamp> 

See Mail::Message::timestamp()

=item B<to> 

See Mail::Message::to()

=back

=head2 The Body

=over 4

=item B<body> [BODY]

See Mail::Message::body()

=item B<decoded> OPTIONS

See Mail::Message::decoded()

=item B<encode> OPTIONS

See Mail::Message::encode()

=item B<isMultipart> 

See Mail::Message::isMultipart()

=item B<parts> ['ALL'|'ACTIVE'|'DELETED'|'RECURSE'|FILTER]

See Mail::Message::parts()

=back

=head2 Access to the Message

=over 4

=item B<file> 

See Mail::Message::Construct::file()

=item B<lines> 

See Mail::Message::Construct::lines()

=item B<string> 

See Mail::Message::Construct::string()

=back

=head2 Labels

=over 4

=item B<delete> 

See Mail::Box::Message::delete()

=item B<deleted> [BOOLEAN]

See Mail::Box::Message::deleted()

=item B<label> LABEL [,VALUE [LABEL, VALUE] ]

See Mail::Message::label()

=item B<labels> 

See Mail::Message::labels()

=back

=head2 Reading and Writing [internals]

=over 4

=item B<DESTROY> 

See Mail::Message::DESTROY()

=item B<fileLocation>  X<fileLocation>

Returns the location of the whole message including the from-line.  In
LIST context, both begin and end are returned.  In SCALAR context, only
the begin is passed back.

=item B<fromLine> [LINE] X<fromLine>

Many people detest file-style folders because they store messages all in
one file, where a line starting with C<From > leads the header.  If we
receive a message from a file-based folder, we store that line.  If we write
to such a file, but there is no such line stored, then we try to generate
one.

If LINE is provided, then the starting line is set to this value.

=item B<isDelayed> 

See Mail::Message::isDelayed()

=item B<labelsToStatus> 

See Mail::Message::labelsToStatus()

=item B<loadBody>  X<loadBody>

=item B<moveLocation> DISTANCE X<moveLocation>

The message is relocated in the file, being moved over DISTANCE bytes.
Setting a new location will update the according information in the header
and body.

=item B<read> PARSER X<read>

Read one message from a Mbox folder, including the message separator.

=item B<readFromParser> PARSER, [BODYTYPE]

See Mail::Message::readFromParser()

=item B<readHead> PARSER [,CLASS]

See Mail::Message::readHead()

=item B<statusToLabels> 

See Mail::Message::statusToLabels()

=item B<storeBody> BODY

See Mail::Message::storeBody()

=item B<takeMessageId> [STRING]

See Mail::Message::takeMessageId()

=back

=head2 Logging and Tracing

=over 4

=item B<defaultTrace> [LEVEL, [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::defaultTrace()

=item B<diskDelete> 

See Mail::Box::Message::diskDelete()

=item B<errors> 

See Mail::Reporter::errors()

=item B<log> [LEVEL [,STRINGS]]

See Mail::Reporter::log()

=item B<printStructure> [FILEHANDLE][, INDENT]

See Mail::Message::Construct::printStructure()

=item B<readBody> PARSER, HEAD [, BODYTYPE]

See Mail::Box::Message::readBody()

=item B<report> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::report()

=item B<reportAll> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::reportAll()

=item B<shortString> 

See Mail::Box::Message::shortString()

=item B<trace> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::trace()

=item B<warnings> 

See Mail::Reporter::warnings()

=back

=head2 Other Methods

=over 4

=item B<AUTOLOAD> 

See Mail::Reporter::AUTOLOAD()

=item B<inGlobalDestruction> 

See Mail::Reporter::inGlobalDestruction()

=item B<logPriority> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::logPriority()

=item B<logSettings> 

See Mail::Reporter::logSettings()

=item B<notImplemented> 

See Mail::Reporter::notImplemented()

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

A good start to read is Mail::Box-Overview.
More documentation and a mailinglist are available from the project's
website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark Overmeer (L<mark@overmeer.net|mailto:mark@overmeer.net>) with the help of many.

=head1 VERSION

This code is beta, version 2.026.

Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Mark Overmeer. All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
