
=head1 NAME


Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS - Convert HTML into PostScript

=head1 CLASS INHERITANCE

Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS
   is a Mail::Message::Convert
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS


 use Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS;
 my $af = Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS->new;

 my $postscript = $af->format($body);

=head1 DESCRIPTION


Translate an HTML/XHTML message body into a postscript body
using HTML::FormatPS.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Initiation

=over 4

=item B<new> OPTIONS X<new>

OPTIONS which start with capitals are blindly passed to HTML::FormatPS.
As of this writing, that package
defines BottomMargin, FontFamily, FontScale, HorizontalMargin, Leading,
LeftMargin, PageNo, PaperHeight, PaperSize, PaperWidth, RightMargin,
TopMargin, and VerticalMargin.

 OPTION               DEFAULT
 fields               <not used>
 log                  'WARNINGS'
 trace                'WARNINGS'

=over 4

=item B<fields> =E<gt> NAMES|ARRAY-OF-NAMES|REGEXS

See Mail::Message::Convert::new(fields)

=item B<log> =E<gt> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::new(log)

=item B<trace> =E<gt> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::new(trace)

=back

=back

=head2 Converting

=over 4

=item B<format> BODY X<format>

Pass an html/xhtml encoded body, and a plain text body is returned.
Characters are translated into Latin1.

=item B<selectedFields> HEAD

See Mail::Message::Convert::selectedFields()

=back

=head2 Logging and Tracing

=over 4

=item B<defaultTrace> [LEVEL, [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::defaultTrace()

=item B<errors> 

See Mail::Reporter::errors()

=item B<log> [LEVEL [,STRINGS]]

See Mail::Reporter::log()

=item B<report> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::report()

=item B<reportAll> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::reportAll()

=item B<trace> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::trace()

=item B<warnings> 

See Mail::Reporter::warnings()

=back

=head2 Other Methods

=over 4

=item B<AUTOLOAD> 

See Mail::Reporter::AUTOLOAD()

=item B<DESTROY> 

See Mail::Reporter::DESTROY()

=item B<inGlobalDestruction> 

See Mail::Reporter::inGlobalDestruction()

=item B<logPriority> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::logPriority()

=item B<logSettings> 

See Mail::Reporter::logSettings()

=item B<notImplemented> 

See Mail::Reporter::notImplemented()

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

A good start to read is Mail::Box-Overview.
More documentation and a mailinglist are available from the project's
website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Mark Overmeer (L<mark@overmeer.net|mailto:mark@overmeer.net>)
with the help of many.  See the ChangeLog for details.

=head1 VERSION

This code is beta, version 2.033.

Copyright (c) 2001-2002 by the authors. All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
