
=head1 NAME


Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat - Reformat plain text messages

=head1 CLASS INHERITANCE

Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat
   is a Mail::Message::Convert
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS


 use Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat;
 my $af = Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat->new;

 my $beautified_body = $af->autoformatBody($body);

=head1 DESCRIPTION


Play trics with plain text, for instance bodies with type C<text/plain>
using Damian Conways Text::Autoformat.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Initiation

=over 4

=item B<new> OPTIONS X<new>

 OPTION               DEFAULT
 fields               <see description>
 log                  'WARNINGS'
 options              { all => 1 }
 trace                'WARNINGS'

=over 4

=item B<fields> =E<gt> NAMES|ARRAY-OF-NAMES|REGEXS

See Mail::Message::Convert::new(fields)

=item B<log> =E<gt> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::new(log)

=item B<options> =E<gt> HASH-REF X<new(options)>

Options to pass to Text::Autoformat, when its C<autoformat> method
is called.

=item B<trace> =E<gt> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::new(trace)

=back

=back

=head2 Converting

=over 4

=item B<autoformatBody> BODY X<autoformatBody>

Formats a single message body (a Mail::Message::Body object)
into a new body object using Text::Autoformat.  If the
Text::Autoformat is not installed, C<undef> is returned.

=item B<selectedFields> HEAD

See Mail::Message::Convert::selectedFields()

=back

=head2 Logging and Tracing

=over 4

=item B<defaultTrace> [LEVEL, [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::defaultTrace()

=item B<errors> 

See Mail::Reporter::errors()

=item B<log> [LEVEL [,STRINGS]]

See Mail::Reporter::log()

=item B<report> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::report()

=item B<reportAll> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::reportAll()

=item B<trace> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::trace()

=item B<warnings> 

See Mail::Reporter::warnings()

=back

=head2 Other Methods

=over 4

=item B<AUTOLOAD> 

See Mail::Reporter::AUTOLOAD()

=item B<DESTROY> 

See Mail::Reporter::DESTROY()

=item B<inGlobalDestruction> 

See Mail::Reporter::inGlobalDestruction()

=item B<logPriority> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::logPriority()

=item B<logSettings> 

See Mail::Reporter::logSettings()

=item B<notImplemented> 

See Mail::Reporter::notImplemented()

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

A good start to read is Mail::Box-Overview.
More documentation and a mailinglist are available from the project's
website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark Overmeer (L<mark@overmeer.net|mailto:mark@overmeer.net>) with the help of many.

=head1 VERSION

This code is beta, version 2.023.

Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Mark Overmeer. All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
