
=head1 NAME

Mail::Transport::Qmail - transmit messages using external Qmail program


=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Transport::Qmail
   is a Mail::Transport::Send
   is a Mail::Transport
   is a Mail::Reporter


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $sender = Mail::Transport::Qmail->new(...);
 $sender->send($message);


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Implements mail transport using the external programs C<'qmail-inject'>,
part of the qmail mail-delivery system.



=head1 METHODS


=head2 Constructors


Mail::Transport::Qmail-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option      Defined in       Default          
 executable  L<Mail::Transport>  C<undef>         
 hostname    L<Mail::Transport>  C<'localhost'>   
 interval    L<Mail::Transport>  C<30>            
 log         L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>    
 password    L<Mail::Transport>  undef            
 port        L<Mail::Transport>  undef            
 proxy       L<Mail::Transport>  C<'qmail-inject'>
 retry       L<Mail::Transport>  <false>          
 timeout     L<Mail::Transport>  C<120>           
 trace       L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>    
 username    L<Mail::Transport>  undef            
 via         L<Mail::Transport>  C<'qmail'>       

. executable FILENAME

. hostname HOSTNAME|ARRAY-OF-HOSTNAMES

. interval SECONDS

. log LEVEL

. password STRING

. port INTEGER

. proxy PATH

. retry NUMBER|undef

. timeout SECONDS

. trace LEVEL

. username STRING

. via CLASS|NAME

=back

=head2 Sending mail


$obj-E<gt>B<destinations>(MESSAGE, [ADDRESS|ARRAY-OF-ADDRESSES])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport::Send/"Sending mail">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<putContent>(MESSAGE, FILEHANDLE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport::Send/"Sending mail">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<send>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport::Send/"Sending mail">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trySend>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

=back

=head2 Server connection


$obj-E<gt>B<findBinary>(NAME [, DIRECTORIES])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport/"Server connection">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<remoteHost>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport/"Server connection">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<retry>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport/"Server connection">

=back

=head2 Error handling


$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

Mail::Transport::Qmail-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Transport::Qmail-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Transport::Qmail-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup


$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back



=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> Errors when closing Qmail mailer $program: $!

The Qmail mail transfer agent did start, but was not able to handle the
message for some specific reason.

I<Error:> Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.






=head1 REFERENCES

See the MailBox website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Distribution version 2.048.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


