
=head1 NAME

Mail::Transport::SMTP - transmit messages without external program


=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Transport::SMTP
   is a Mail::Transport::Send
   is a Mail::Transport
   is a Mail::Reporter


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $sender = Mail::Transport::SMTP->new(...);
 $sender->send($message);

 $message->send(via => 'smtp');


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module implements transport of C<Mail::Message> objects by negotiating
to the destination host directly by using the SMTP protocol, without help of
C<sendmail>, C<mail>, or other programs on the local host.



=head1 METHODS


=head2 Constructors


Mail::Transport::SMTP-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option       Defined in       Default           
 executable   L<Mail::Transport>  C<undef>          
 helo_domain                   <from Net::Config>
 hostname     L<Mail::Transport>  <from Net::Config>
 interval     L<Mail::Transport>  C<30>             
 log          L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>     
 password                      undef             
 port         L<Mail::Transport>  C<25>             
 proxy        L<Mail::Transport>  <from Net::Config>
 retry        L<Mail::Transport>  <false>           
 smtp_debug                    <false>           
 timeout                       120               
 trace        L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>     
 username                      undef             
 via          L<Mail::Transport>  C<'smtp'>         

. executable FILENAME

. helo_domain HOST

=over 4

The fully qualified name of the sender's host (your system) which
is used for the greeting message to the receiver.  If not specified,
Net::Config or else Net::Domain are questioned to find it.
When even these do not supply a valid name, the name of the domain in the
C<From> line of the message is assumed.

=back

. hostname HOSTNAME|ARRAY-OF-HOSTNAMES

. interval SECONDS

. log LEVEL

. password STRING

=over 4

The password to be used with the new(username) to log in to the remote
server.

=back

. port INTEGER

. proxy PATH

. retry NUMBER|undef

. smtp_debug BOOLEAN

=over 4

Simulate transmission: the SMTP protocol output will be sent to your
screen.

=back

. timeout SECONDS

=over 4

The number of seconds to wait for a valid response from the server before
failing.

=back

. trace LEVEL

. username STRING

=over 4

Use SASL authentication to contact the remote SMTP server (RFC2554).
This username in combination with new(password) is passed as arguments
to Net::SMTP method auth.  Other forms of authentication are not
supported by Net::SMTP.  The C<username> can also be specified as an
Authen::SASL object.

=back

. via CLASS|NAME

=back

=head2 Sending mail


$obj-E<gt>B<destinations>(MESSAGE, [ADDRESS|ARRAY-OF-ADDRESSES])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport::Send/"Sending mail">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<putContent>(MESSAGE, FILEHANDLE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport::Send/"Sending mail">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<send>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport::Send/"Sending mail">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trySend>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Try to send the MESSAGE once.   This may fail, in which case this
method will return C<false>.  In list context, the reason for failure
can be caught: in list context C<trySend> will return a list of
five values:

 (success, error code, error text, error location, quit success)

Success and quit success are booleans.  The error code and -text are
protocol specific codes and texts.  The location tells where the
problem occurred.

 Option  Defined in       Default
 from                     []     
 to                       []     

. from ADDRESS

=over 4

Your own identification.  This may be fake.  If not specified, it is
taken from the C<From> field in the header.

=back

. to ADDRESS|[ADDRESSES]

=over 4

Alternative destinations.  If not specified, the C<To>, C<Cc> and C<Bcc>
fields of the header are used.  An address is a string or a Mail::Address
object.

=back

=back

=head2 Server connection


$obj-E<gt>B<contactAnyServer>

=over 4

Creates the connection to the SMTP server.  When more than one hostname
was specified, the first which accepts a connection is taken.  An
IO::Socket::INET object is returned.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<findBinary>(NAME [, DIRECTORIES])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport/"Server connection">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<remoteHost>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport/"Server connection">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<retry>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport/"Server connection">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<tryConnectTo>(HOST, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Try to establish a connection to deliver SMTP to the specified HOST.  The
OPTIONS are passed to the C<new> method of Net::SMTP.

=back

=head2 Error handling


$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

Mail::Transport::SMTP-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Transport::SMTP-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Transport::SMTP-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup


$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back



=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.






=head1 REFERENCES

See the MailBox website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Distribution version 2.044.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


