
=head1 NAME


Mail::Message::Head::ResentGroup - a group of header fields about resending

=head1 CLASS INHERITANCE

Mail::Message::Head::ResentGroup
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS


 my $rg = Mail::Message::Head::ResentGroup->new(head => $head,
    From => 'me@home.nl', To => 'You@tux.aq');
 $head->addResentGroup($rg);

 my $rg = $head->addResentGroup(From => 'me');

 my @from = $rg->From;

 my @rgs = $head->resentGroups;
 $rg[2]->delete if @rgs > 2;

=head1 DESCRIPTION


A I<resent group> is a set of header lines which describe a intermediate
step in the message transport.  Resent groups B<have NOTHING to do> with
user activety; there is no relation to the user's sense of creating
C<reply>, C<forward> or C<bounce> messages at all!

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Initiation

=over 4

=item B<new> [FIELDS], OPTIONS X<new>

Create an object which maintains one set of resent headers.  The
FIELDS are Mail::Message::Field objects from the same header.

OPTIONS which start with capitals will be used to construct additional
fields.  These option names are prepended with C<Resent->, keeping the
capitization of what is specified.

 OPTION               DEFAULT
 Bcc                  undef
 Cc                   undef
 Date                 <now>
 From                 <required>
 Message-ID           <uniquely created>
 Received             <required>
 Sender               undef
 To                   undef
 head                 <required>
 log                  'WARNINGS'
 trace                'WARNINGS'

=over 4

=item B<Bcc> =E<gt> STRING|OBJECT|OBJECTS X<new(Bcc)>

=item B<Cc> =E<gt> STRING|OBJECT|OBJECTS X<new(Cc)>

=item B<Date> =E<gt> STRING X<new(Date)>

When this resent-group is dispatched by the resender of the message. Like
the C<Date> field, it is not the date and time that the message was
actually transported.

=item B<From> =E<gt> STRING|OBJECT|OBJECTS X<new(From)>

=item B<Message-ID> =E<gt> STRING|FIELD X<new(Message-ID)>

The C<Resent-Message-ID> which identifies this resent group.  The FIELD
must contain a message id.

=item B<Received> =E<gt> STRING X<new(Received)>

The C<Received> field is the starting line for a resent group of header
lines, therefore it is obligatory.

=item B<Sender> =E<gt> STRING|OBJECT X<new(Sender)>

Only permitted when more than one from address is specified.  In this case,
it selects one of these addresses as the main originator of the message.

=item B<To> =E<gt> STRING|OBJECT|OBJECTS X<new(To)>

=item B<head> =E<gt> OBJECT X<new(head)>

The header where this resent group belongs to.

=item B<log> =E<gt> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::new(log)

=item B<trace> =E<gt> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::new(trace)

=back

=back

=head2 The Header

=over 4

=item B<delete>  X<delete>

Remove all the header lines which are combined in this resent group
from the header.

=back

=head2 Access to the Header

=over 4

=item B<bcc>  X<bcc>

In scalar context, the C<Resent-Bcc> field is returned.  In list context,
the addresses as specified within the bcc field are returned as
Mail::Address objects.  Bcc fields are not transmitted (hidden for
external parties).

=item B<cc>  X<cc>

In scalar context, the C<Resent-Cc> field is returned.  In list context,
the addresses as specified within the cc field are returned as
Mail::Address objects.

=item B<date>  X<date>

Returns the C<Resent-Date> field, or C<undef> if it was not defined.

=item B<dateTimestamp>  X<dateTimestamp>

The timestamp as stored within the C<Resent-Date> field converted to
local system time.

=item B<destinations>  X<destinations>

Returns a list of all addresses specified in the C<Resent-To>, C<-Cc>, and
C<-Bcc> fields of this resent group.

=item B<from>  X<from>

In scalar context, the C<Resent-From> field is returned.  In list
context, the addresses as specified within the from field are
returned as Mail::Address objects.

=item B<messageId>  X<messageId>

Returns the message-ID used for this group of resent lines.

=item B<received>  X<received>

The field which describes the C<Received> data of this resent group.

=item B<receivedTimestamp>  X<receivedTimestamp>

The timestamp as stored within the C<Received> field converted to
local system time.

=item B<returnPath>  X<returnPath>

The field which describes the C<Return-Path> of this resent group.

=item B<sender>  X<sender>

In scalar context, the C<Resent-Sender> field is returned.  In list
context, the addresses as specified within the from field are
returned as Mail::Address objects.

=item B<set> (FIELD =E<gt> VALUE) | OBJECT X<set>

Set a FIELD to a (new) VALUE.  The FIELD names which do not start with
'Resent-*' but need it will have that added.  It is also an option to
specify a fully prepared message field OBJECT.  In any case, a field
OBJECT is returned.
See also Mail::Message::Head::resent() and
Mail::Message::Construct::bounce().

Examples:

 my @rgs  = $msg->head->resentGroups;
 my $this = $rgs[0];
 $this->set(To => 'fish@tux.aq');
 $msg->send;

 $msg->head->resent(To => 'fish@tux.aq');   # the same
 $msg->send;

 $msg->bounce(To => 'fish@tux.aq')->send;   # the same

=item B<to>  X<to>

In scalar context, the C<Resent-To> field is returned.  In list context,
the addresses as specified within the to field are returned as
Mail::Address objects.

=back

=head2 Reading and Writing [internals]

=over 4

=item B<createReceived>  X<createReceived>

Create a recieved field for this resent group.  This is automatically
called if none was specified during creation of this resent group object.

The content of this field is described in RFC2821 section 4.4.  It could use
some improvement.

=item B<orderedFields>  X<orderedFields>

Returns the fields in the order as should appear in header according
to rfc2822.  For the C<Resent-> fields of the group, the order is
not that important, but the C<Return-Path> and C<Received> must come
first.  Only fields mentioned in the RFC are returned.

=item B<print> [FILEHANDLE] X<print>

=back

=head2 Logging and Tracing

=over 4

=item B<defaultTrace> [LEVEL, [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::defaultTrace()

=item B<errors> 

See Mail::Reporter::errors()

=item B<log> [LEVEL [,STRINGS]]

See Mail::Reporter::log()

=item B<report> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::report()

=item B<reportAll> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::reportAll()

=item B<trace> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::trace()

=item B<warnings> 

See Mail::Reporter::warnings()

=back

=head2 Other Methods

=over 4

=item B<AUTOLOAD> 

See Mail::Reporter::AUTOLOAD()

=item B<DESTROY> 

See Mail::Reporter::DESTROY()

=item B<inGlobalDestruction> 

See Mail::Reporter::inGlobalDestruction()

=item B<logPriority> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::logPriority()

=item B<logSettings> 

See Mail::Reporter::logSettings()

=item B<notImplemented> 

See Mail::Reporter::notImplemented()

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

A good start to read is Mail::Box-Overview.
More documentation and a mailinglist are available from the project's
website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Mark Overmeer (L<mark@overmeer.net|mailto:mark@overmeer.net>)
with the help of many.  See the ChangeLog for details.

=head1 VERSION

This code is beta, version 2.031.

Copyright (c) 2001-2002 by the authors. All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
