
=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Wrapper::SpamAssassin - Connect a Mail::Message with Mail::SpamAssassin


=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Wrapper::SpamAssassin
   is a Mail::SpamAssassin::Message


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # See Mail::Box::Search::SpamAssassin for the prefered interface
 # However, it is possible to do:

 my $msg    = ...;   # some Mail::Message object
 my $sa     = Mail::Message::Wrapper::SpamAssassin->new($msg);
 my $spam   = Mail::SpamAssassin->new;
 my $status = $spam->check($sa);

 $msg->label(spam => 1) if $status->is_spam;
 $status->rewrite_mail;  # Adds spam lines to header


=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Mail::Message::Wrapper::SpamAssassin>
class --sorry for the long package
name-- is a wrapper around Mail::SpamAssassin::Message, which is an
interface to the spam checking software of Mail::SpamAssassin.



=head1 METHODS


Mail::Message::Wrapper::SpamAssassin-E<gt>B<new>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Creates a wrapper around the MESSAGE.  The already present fields
from a previous run of Spam::Assassin (or probably fake lines) are
removed first.

=back








=head1 REFERENCES

See the MailBox website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Distribution version 2.053.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


