
=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::IMAP4::DelayedBody - lazy body for remote IMAP messages


=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Box::IMAP4::DelayedBody realizes a Mail::Message::Body

 Mail::Box::IMAP4::DelayedBody
   is a Mail::Reporter


=head1 SYNOPSIS



=head1 DESCRIPTION



=head1 OVERLOADED


overload: B<"">

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Delayed/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<@{}>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Delayed/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<bool>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Delayed/"OVERLOADED">

=back


=head1 METHODS


=head2 Constructors


Mail::Box::IMAP4::DelayedBody-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option   Defined in       Default      
 log      L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>
 message  L<Mail::Message::Body::Delayed>  <required>   
 trace    L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>

. log LEVEL

. message MESSAGE

. trace LEVEL

=back

=head2 The body


$obj-E<gt>B<guessSize>

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<message>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Delayed/"The body">

=back

=head2 About to the payload


$obj-E<gt>B<isDelayed>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Delayed/"About to the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isModified>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Delayed/"About to the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isMultipart>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Delayed/"About to the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<modified>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Delayed/"About to the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nrLines>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Delayed/"About to the payload">

=back

=head2 Internals


$obj-E<gt>B<fileLocation>(BEGIN, END)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Delayed/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<load>

=over 4

Returns the loaded version of this body.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<moveLocation>(DISTANCE)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Delayed/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<read>(PARSER, HEAD, BODYTYPE)

=over 4

=back

=head2 Error handling


$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

Mail::Box::IMAP4::DelayedBody-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL, [LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Box::IMAP4::DelayedBody-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Box::IMAP4::DelayedBody-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup


$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back



=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.






=head1 REFERENCES

See the MailBox website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Distribution version 2.052.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


