
=head1 NAME

Mail::Server::IMAP4::Search - select messages within a IMAP folder (not completed)


=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Server::IMAP4::Search
   is a Mail::Box::Search
   is a Mail::Reporter


=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Mail::Box::Manager;
 my $mgr    = Mail::Box::Manager->new;
 my $folder = $mgr->open('imap4:Inbox');

 my $filter = Mail::Server::IMAP4::Search->new
    (  ...to be defined...
    );

 my @msgs   = $filter->search($folder);
 if($filter->search($message)) {...}


=head1 DESCRIPTION

THIS PACKAGES IS NOT IMPLEMENTED YET...  (it's waiting for a volunteer)



=head1 METHODS


=head2 Constructors


Mail::Server::IMAP4::Search-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option      Defined in       Default      
 binaries    L<Mail::Box::Search>  <false>      
 decode      L<Mail::Box::Search>  <true>       
 delayed     L<Mail::Box::Search>  <true>       
 deleted     L<Mail::Box::Search>  <false>      
 deliver     L<Mail::Box::Search>  undef        
 in          L<Mail::Box::Search>  C<'BODY'>    
 label       L<Mail::Box::Search>  undef        
 limit       L<Mail::Box::Search>  C<0>         
 log         L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>
 logical     L<Mail::Box::Search>  C<'REPLACE'> 
 multiparts  L<Mail::Box::Search>  <true>       
 trace       L<Mail::Reporter>  C<'WARNINGS'>

. binaries BOOLEAN

. decode BOOLEAN

. delayed BOOLEAN

. deleted BOOLEAN

. deliver undef|CODE|'DELETE'

. in 'HEAD'|'BODY'|'MESSAGE'

. label STRING

. limit NUMBER

. log LEVEL

. logical 'REPLACE'|'AND'|'OR'|'NOT'|'AND NOT'|'OR NOT'

. multiparts BOOLEAN

. trace LEVEL

=back

=head2 Searching


$obj-E<gt>B<inBody>(PART, BODY)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Search/"Searching">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inHead>(PART, HEAD)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Search/"Searching">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<search>(FOLDER|THREAD|MESSAGE|ARRAY-OF-MESSAGES)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Search/"Searching">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<searchPart>(PART)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Search/"Searching">

=back

=head2 The Results


$obj-E<gt>B<printMatch>([FILEHANDLE], HASH)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Search/"The Results">

=back

=head2 Error handling


$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Server::IMAP4::Search-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Server::IMAP4::Search-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Server::IMAP4::Search-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup


$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back



=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.






=head1 REFERENCES

See the MailBox website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/> for more details.

=head1 COPYRIGHTS

Distribution version 2.064.
Written by Mark Overmeer (mark@overmeer.net).  See the ChangeLog for
other contributors.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the author(s). All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.


