
=head1 NAME


Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64 - encode/decode base64 message bodies

=head1 CLASS INHERITANCE

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64
   is a Mail::Message::TransferEnc
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS


 my Mail::Message $msg = ...;
 my $decoded = $msg->decoded;
 my $encoded = $msg->encode(transfer => 'base64');

=head1 DESCRIPTION


Encode or decode message bodies with base64.  The e-mail protocol and
user agents can not handle binary data.  Therefore, binary data -but
even sometimes non-binary data- is encoded into ASCII, this is
transportable.

Base64 re-groups the bits of bytes, and maps them on characters. The
data contains bytes of 8 bits (an I<octet>).  These are repacked into
groups of 6 bits, pointing in an array of characters containing
C<[A-Za-z0-9+/]>.  This way, three data bytes become 4 base64 bytes.
The encoded data will be trailed by C<'='> characters to align on
four bytes.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Initiation

=over 4

=item B<new> OPTIONS X<new>

 OPTION               DEFAULT
 log                  'WARNINGS'
 trace                'WARNINGS'

=over 4

=item B<log> =E<gt> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::new(log)

=item B<trace> =E<gt> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::new(trace)

=back

=back

=head2 The Encoder

=over 4

=item B<addTransferEncoder> TYPE, CLASS

See Mail::Message::TransferEnc::addTransferEncoder()

=item B<create> TYPE, OPTIONS

See Mail::Message::TransferEnc::create()

=item B<name> 

See Mail::Message::TransferEnc::name()

=back

=head2 Encoding

=over 4

=item B<check> BODY, OPTIONS

See Mail::Message::TransferEnc::check()

=item B<decode> BODY [, OPTIONS]

See Mail::Message::TransferEnc::decode()

=item B<encode> BODY, OPTIONS

See Mail::Message::TransferEnc::encode()

=back

=head2 Logging and Tracing

=over 4

=item B<defaultTrace> [LEVEL, [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::defaultTrace()

=item B<errors> 

See Mail::Reporter::errors()

=item B<log> [LEVEL [,STRINGS]]

See Mail::Reporter::log()

=item B<report> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::report()

=item B<reportAll> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::reportAll()

=item B<trace> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::trace()

=item B<warnings> 

See Mail::Reporter::warnings()

=back

=head2 Other Methods

=over 4

=item B<AUTOLOAD> 

See Mail::Reporter::AUTOLOAD()

=item B<DESTROY> 

See Mail::Reporter::DESTROY()

=item B<inGlobalDestruction> 

See Mail::Reporter::inGlobalDestruction()

=item B<logPriority> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::logPriority()

=item B<logSettings> 

See Mail::Reporter::logSettings()

=item B<notImplemented> 

See Mail::Reporter::notImplemented()

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

A good start to read is Mail::Box-Overview.
More documentation and a mailinglist are available from the project's
website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Mark Overmeer (L<mark@overmeer.net|mailto:mark@overmeer.net>)
with the help of many.  See the ChangeLog for details.

=head1 VERSION

This code is beta, version 2.036.

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 by the authors. All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
