
=head1 NAME


Mail::Message::TransferEnc::EightBit - encode/decode 8bit message bodies

=head1 CLASS INHERITANCE

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::EightBit
   is a Mail::Message::TransferEnc
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS


 my Mail::Message $msg = ...;
 my $decoded = $msg->decoded;
 my $encoded = $msg->encode(transfer => '8bit');

=head1 DESCRIPTION


Encode or decode message bodies for 8bit transfer encoding.  This is
only very little encoding.  According to the specs:

RFC-2045 Section 2.8 defines legal `8bit' data:

 "8bit data" refers to data that is all represented as relatively
 short lines with 998 octets or less between CRLF line separation
 sequences [RFC-821]), but octets with decimal values greater than 127
 may be used.  As with "7bit data" CR and LF octets only occur as part
 of CRLF line separation sequences and no NULs are allowed.

As you can safely conclude: decoding of these bodies is no work
at all.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Initiation

=over 4

=item B<new> OPTIONS

See Mail::Message::TransferEnc::new()

=back

=head2 The Encoder

=over 4

=item B<addTransferEncoder> TYPE, CLASS

See Mail::Message::TransferEnc::addTransferEncoder()

=item B<create> TYPE, OPTIONS

See Mail::Message::TransferEnc::create()

=item B<name> 

See Mail::Message::TransferEnc::name()

=back

=head2 Encoding

=over 4

=item B<check> BODY, OPTIONS

See Mail::Message::TransferEnc::check()

=item B<decode> BODY [, OPTIONS]

See Mail::Message::TransferEnc::decode()

=item B<encode> BODY, OPTIONS

See Mail::Message::TransferEnc::encode()

=back

=head2 Logging and Tracing

=over 4

=item B<defaultTrace> [LEVEL, [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::defaultTrace()

=item B<errors> 

See Mail::Reporter::errors()

=item B<log> [LEVEL [,STRINGS]]

See Mail::Reporter::log()

=item B<report> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::report()

=item B<reportAll> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::reportAll()

=item B<trace> [LEVEL]

See Mail::Reporter::trace()

=item B<warnings> 

See Mail::Reporter::warnings()

=back

=head2 Other Methods

=over 4

=item B<AUTOLOAD> 

See Mail::Reporter::AUTOLOAD()

=item B<DESTROY> 

See Mail::Reporter::DESTROY()

=item B<inGlobalDestruction> 

See Mail::Reporter::inGlobalDestruction()

=item B<logPriority> LEVEL

See Mail::Reporter::logPriority()

=item B<logSettings> 

See Mail::Reporter::logSettings()

=item B<notImplemented> 

See Mail::Reporter::notImplemented()

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

A good start to read is Mail::Box-Overview.
More documentation and a mailinglist are available from the project's
website at L<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark Overmeer (L<mark@overmeer.net|mailto:mark@overmeer.net>) with the help of many.

=head1 VERSION

This code is beta, version 2.024.

Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Mark Overmeer. All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.
